README.md, before:



# Folkus

  - Frontend Folder Structure

    `src`

      - `actions` 

      - `components` 

      - `context` 

      - `images` 

      - `pages` 

        - `CRUD/Users` 

        - `dashboard` 

        - `error`

        - `login` 

        - `reset`

        - `starter`

        - `user`

        - `verify`

      - `reducer` 

    `public` 

  - Backend folder structure: 

    `src` 

      - `auth` 

      - `db` 

        - `api` 

        - `migrations` 

        - `models`

        - `seeders` 

      - `routes` 

      - `services` 

  - Database: PostgreSQL

  -----------------------

## To start the project:

### Project installation prerequisites:

Please ensure you have the following tools installed:
  `npm`
  `yarn`
  `nvm` optional

### Node.js 

If you do not already have a Node.js on your computer, download and install from (https://nodejs/en/download)

If your Node.js version is not v16.x.x, please install the node version manager from either:

  (https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) for Linux and Mac

  (https://github.com/coreybutler/nvm-windows) for Windows

Then change to Node.js v16 with:

`nvm install 16`
`nvm use 16`
`node -v`

### Backend:

> Please change current folder: `cd backend`

#### Install local dependencies:
`yarn install`

  ------------

#### Create local db:
##### 1.  Install postgres:
Windows:

Download installer from (https://www.postgresql.org/downloads/windows/) and follow installer instructions

MacOS:

`brew install postgres`

    > if you don’t have ‘brew‘ please install it (https://brew.sh) and repeat step `brew install postgres`.

Ubuntu:

`sudo apt update`

`sudo apt install postgresql`

##### 2. Create db and admin user:
Login to postgres with 'postgres' Superuser with the login password set during installation

`psql -U postgres`

Next, type this command for creating a new user with password then give access for creating the database.

`postgres-# CREATE ROLE admin CREATEDB LOGIN PASSWORD 'admin_pass';`

Quit `psql` then log in again using the new user that previously created.

`postgres-# \q`

`psql postgres -U admin`

Type this command to creating a new database.

`postgres=> CREATE DATABASE db_folkus;`

Then give that new user privileges to the new database then quit the `psql`.

`postgres=> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE db_folkus TO admin;`

`postgres=> \q`

  ------------

#### Create database:
`yarn db:create`

#### Start local deployment:
`yarn start`

### Frontend:

> Please change current folder: `cd frontend`

  #### 1. Run `yarn install`

  This will install both run-time project dependencies and developer tools listed
  in [package.json](../project-files/package.json) file.

  #### 2. Run `yarn start`

  Runs the app in the development mode.

  Open http://localhost:3000 to view it in the browser. 

  #### 3. Run `yarn build`

  Builds the app for production to the build folder.

### Docker:

Currently not working for Windows and Mac, please do not use

Commit message:

Updated web app with new features and reworked older pages
Significant changes to backend, removed redundant models and added new fields
Frontend is changed to accomodate backend changes and added new forms and icons

README.md, after:



# Folkus

  - Frontend Folder Structure

    `src`

      - `actions` 

      - `components` 

      - `context` 

      - `images` 

      - `pages` 

        - `CRUD/Users` 

        - `dashboard` 

        - `error`

        - `login` 

        - `reset`

        - `starter`

        - `user`

        - `verify`

      - `reducer` 

    `public` 

  - Backend folder structure: 

    `src` 

      - `auth` 

      - `db` 

        - `api` 

        - `migrations` 

        - `models`

        - `seeders` 

      - `routes` 

      - `services` 

  - Database: PostgreSQL

  -----------------------

## To start the project:

### Project installation prerequisites:

Please ensure you have the following tools installed:
  `npm`

  `yarn`

  `nvm` optional

### Node.js 

If you do not already have a Node.js on your computer, download and install from (https://nodejs/en/download)

If your Node.js version is not v16.x.x, please install the node version manager from either:

  (https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) for Linux and Mac

  (https://github.com/coreybutler/nvm-windows) for Windows

Then change to Node.js v16 with:

`nvm install 16`

`nvm use 16`

`node -v`

### Backend:

> Please change current folder: `cd backend`

#### Install local dependencies:
`yarn install`

  ------------

#### Create local db:
##### 1.  Install postgres:
Windows:

Download installer from (https://www.postgresql.org/downloads/windows/) and follow installer instructions

MacOS:

`brew install postgres`

    > if you don’t have ‘brew‘ please install it (https://brew.sh) and repeat step `brew install postgres`.

Ubuntu:

`sudo apt update`

`sudo apt install postgresql`

##### 2. Create db and admin user:
Login to postgres with 'postgres' Superuser with the login password set during installation

`psql -U postgres`

Next, type this command for creating a new user with password then give access for creating the database.

`postgres-# CREATE ROLE admin CREATEDB LOGIN PASSWORD 'admin_pass';`

Quit `psql` then log in again using the new user that previously created.

`postgres-# \q`

`psql postgres -U admin`

Type this command to creating a new database.

`postgres=> CREATE DATABASE db_folkus;`

Then give that new user privileges to the new database then quit the `psql`.

`postgres=> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE db_folkus TO admin;`

`postgres=> \q`

  ------------

#### Create database:

`cd src/db/`

Fill the `password: ''` section in `db.config.js` with postgres superuser password

`cd ../../`

`yarn db:create`

#### Start local deployment:
`yarn start`

### Frontend:

> Please change current folder: `cd frontend`

  #### 1. Run `yarn install`

  This will install both run-time project dependencies and developer tools listed
  in [package.json](../project-files/package.json) file.

  #### 2. Run `yarn start`

  Runs the app in the development mode.

  Open http://localhost:3000 to view it in the browser. 

  #### 3. Run `yarn build`

  Builds the app for production to the build folder.

### Docker:

Currently not working for Windows and Mac, please do not use
